Welcome to WWDC.
Before I start,
let me ask for a show of hands.
How many people are here
in a Bonjour networking
presentation for the first time?
Wow, that's two-thirds of the room.
It's amazing.
It's great to see all the new faces here.
What we're going to talk about today,
I'm going to cover some of the
history of how we got to here.
This is the 10th year we've been doing
a Bonjour networking presentation
at the Apple Developer Conference.
For those of you who are new,
I'm going to give some
background about what Bonjour is,
what it does for you,
the platforms that are
available for you to use it on,
and the basic APIs it provides that
you can use in your applications.
And then we'll dive into more
detail about the specifics of
those APIs and how to use them.
So this is how we get to be here today
at the 10th WWDC Bonjour presentation.
Back in the 1970s, we had TCP/IP,
and in the '80s,
we had AppleTalk and NetWare, IPX, and
NetBIOS on DOS and Windows machines.
There were lots of different
protocols all competing.
But by the late '90s,
it was clear that TCP/IP had won,
and all of the other protocols
were fading into obscurity.
But protocols like AppleTalk had
good ease-of-use properties that
IP really didn't have at the time.
And towards the end of the '90s,
there were some discussions on some
mailing lists about transplanting
some of the good features of
things like AppleTalk onto IP.
In 1999, the IETF formed the
Zero Configuration Working Group,
and a couple of years later,
Apple announced that we would
be building products using these
zero-configuration technologies.
Very shortly after that,
the first Bonjour printers started
shipping because the printer
makers had acutely felt the
difficulties with ease of use on IP.
Desktop publishing in the 80s and
early 90s was one of Apple's strengths,
and everybody knew you just plug
a laser writer into the network,
and you look in the chooser,
and there it is, and you pick it,
and you print.
But IP printers were
much harder to set up.
I know some people at a
Silicon Valley startup.
These were smart people with
masters and PhDs in computer science
doing a Silicon Valley startup,
and they bought this fancy,
top-of-the-line HP printer, double-sided,
staple-in-the-corner, collating,
thing the size of a refrigerator.
Plug it into the network.
The Mac users just
pick it in the chooser,
and they're printing.
After three days of struggling,
they put it back in the box and returned
it to Fry's because they couldn't get it
to print from Windows or Linux over IP.
Something was messed
up with the settings.
They pressed the reset button,
which was supposed to turn
it back to factory defaults.
It didn't for some reason,
and they just gave up.
And I told this story
to some HP executives,
and they kind of hung
their heads and said,
yes, we know.
So,
the printer makers were really acutely
aware that they were going to be killed
with product returns and support costs
if they couldn't make IP networking
as easy to use as AppleTalk was.
Moving forwards in time,
in 2005 we added Wide Area Bonjour to the
Link Local Bonjour we had before that.
When the iPhone launched, it had the same
Bonjour APIs that Mac OS X did.
In Mac OS 10.6,
we added the Bonjour sleep proxy,
which I will tell you a
little bit more about.
And that brings us to today,
our 10th presentation.
So this is what the world
looked like in 1990.
At the physical layer,
there were lots of different
ways you could physically connect
your computer to other devices.
There were serial ports,
there were parallel ports,
there were networking protocols
like Ethernet and Token Ring.
So there was a lot of confusion.
If you were making a product,
it really wasn't clear what to use,
or maybe you had to do all of them,
but that was expensive.
And at the software and protocol level,
there were all these different protocols.
Well, today,
we all know the way things have gone.
TCP/IP is really the only credible
networking protocol that you
would think of using today.
And if you're building
a device like a laptop,
it's pretty clear that what you put
on it is Ethernet or Wi-Fi or both,
but you're not going to put
a token ring interface on.
And this is good for all of us because
now when you show up in a hotel room,
you know they're going
to have an Ethernet jack,
not a token ring jack in the hotel room.
So standardization frees us from those
silly standards battles and lets us get
on with making really great products.
So let's dive down a bit
deeper into how TCP/IP works.
We've got different physical
layers at the bottom.
We've got the IP protocol layer,
which is the waste of the hourglass.
On top of that, we have transport
protocols like TCP and UDP.
And then running on top of TCP,
we have connection-based
protocols like web browsing,
email, SSH.
And on UDP,
we have more real-time applications
and packet-oriented communications
like Skype and FaceTime.
An essential part of
the IP stack is DHCP,
which is what auto-configures your
device with its IP address here at WWDC.
That is also built on top of UDP.
We have the domain name system
for looking up addresses,
translating names to addresses.
That's also built on UDP.
Well, this is great,
and this is the state of the world
as it was maybe about 10 years ago.
And if you plugged your laptop
computer into a well-managed network,
it would auto-configure
and you'd get an address,
and that's great.
But with AppleTalk,
you didn't need the administrator
to set up the network for you.
You could literally take two Macs and
an Ethernet wire and plug them together,
and you had a functioning network.
So we wanted that same
bulletproof reliability on IP.
So what we added in addition to DHCP was
self-assigned link local addresses.
And the way that works is that
if your Mac or iPhone or iPad
doesn't find a DHCP server,
then instead of just
giving up and failing,
then it picks a random address in the
range 169.254 and sends an ARP request.
And if some other device answers,
then you pick a different
address and try again.
Very simple,
just like what AppleTalk did.
So, not really rocket science,
not inventing anything new,
but it brings that capability to IP.
This has been around for a long time now.
It was even in Mac OS 9 and Windows 98,
so by now everybody should
be familiar with that.
And of course,
IPv6 also has self-assigned
link local addressing,
too.
In the naming world, if you don't want to
be typing IP addresses,
you particularly don't want
to be typing IPv6 addresses,
you need to be able to look up names.
And a similar situation applies.
DNS is great if you have a
DNS server set up and run properly.
But for most home users,
that's more hassle than they want.
So we added multicast DNS.
And just like LinkLocal is
not competing with DHCP,
this is not competing
with conventional DNS.
Conventional DNS is still invaluable.
But for communications
on the same local link,
when you don't have DNS,
this gives you a way to use
DNS names in your applications,
in your user interface,
in the normal way that the user expects.
Except instead of sending the
queries to a specific server,
they're multicast on the network
to all of your local peers.
And every device on the network
runs a little piece of software
called the multicast DNS responder.
And when it sees a
query for its own name,
then it says, hey, that's me,
and it sends back a standard DNS format
reply using the standard syntax,
standard packet format, standard names,
and record types.
Except the query came in over multicast.
Now this is great.
When we add these two things to IP,
we've got ourselves to feature
parity with traditional IPs.
And what I mean by that is if you
know what name to type and you type it
correctly and you don't make a mistake,
then it will work.
But if it doesn't work,
you don't really know why
or what to do about it.
And Apple talk didn't make you
type in the name of the printer.
It let you pick it from
a list in the chooser.
So we wanted the same thing for IP.
And that is DNS-based service discovery,
which is a way of using
standard DNS records,
types PTR, SRV.
And TXT.
And structuring those records in a
way to facilitate service discovery.
And that runs on top of the
DNS infrastructure below.
And by that I mean it can run on
multicast DNS on the local link,
or it can run using standard
wide area unicast DNS queries.
And that's what gives
us wide area Bonjour.
Thank you.
So here's the summary.
These are the three legs of
zero-configuration networking that you
will want to build into your products
if you're making a hardware product.
You want link-local addressing,
so you're not dependent on
an external DHCP server.
You want multicast DNS for name lookup,
so you're not dependent
on an external DNS server.
And you want DNS service discovery,
so that the user can discover your device
instead of having to type the name in.
This is all available as open
source from Apple and from other
independent implementations as well,
so there's plenty to pick from here.
So what does that give us today?
Well, lots of devices running Bonjour.
You can discover printers and scanners.
You can discover Apple devices like
the Apple TV for AirPlay streaming
or your AirPort Base Station for
setting it up with AirPort Utility.
You can discover network cameras.
TiVos use Bonjour.
If any of you in the room have
a TiVo and you haven't got the
TiVo remote app for the iPad,
download it now.
It is an absolutely wonderful
way of managing your TiVo.
It's much,
much better than doing it with the
standard remote on the television screen.
It uses the power of the
multi-touch interface on the iPad
and having a big touchscreen right
in your lap to give you a much,
much better user experience.
it's done the normal up, down, left,
right on a remote control.
And of course,
Macs and iPads and iPhones are also
devices you can discover using Bonjour.
For you as developers,
what platforms are supported?
Well, obviously,
Mac OS X machines have the Bonjour APIs,
and Linux and Windows have
the same Bonjour APIs.
If you use Apple's open-source
cross-platform MNNS responder code,
there are also third-party
implementations.
And of course,
mobile devices like iPhones and iPads
and Android phones also support Bonjour.
Here are some of the ways that we
have used Bonjour in Apple products.
When I go to IETF meetings
three times a year,
they normally have a printer set up
in the terminal room in case people
need to print out things on paper.
And next to the printer is
a stack of printouts with
instructions how to configure
your Windows machine for printing.
And next to that is a
single sheet of paper.
They don't bother printing a stack.
They just have one there.
How to configure your Mac for printing?
And the answer is,
select Print on the File menu,
and the ITF printer will already
be there in the dialog box,
and you select it, and you print.
There is no step two.
In the Finder in Lion,
we have two things that use Bonjour.
We have finding local AFP servers
on the network around you,
which you already have
seen in 10.5 and 10.6.
Also new in Lion is AirDrop.
In iTunes,
iTunes uses Bonjour to discover shared
music around you on the network,
and it also uses Bonjour to
discover AirPlay devices that
you can play your media to.
In Safari, there's the Bonjour menu
in the bookmarks list,
which shows you a list of what it
discovers on the network around you.
If you have a network printer,
they almost all have a web
page for checking the ink
levels and managing them,
and you don't need to
know the name to type in.
You can discover that in Safari.
Safari also supports wide-area Bonjour,
so it can discover things that are
being advertised through conventional
DNS that aren't on the local network.
So if you haven't looked at this already,
take a look in Safari and
look in Bonjour,
and you should see the WWDC developer
information page appearing there.
So if you forget the URL,
it doesn't matter,
because you can just find it
in Bonjour and click on it.
Bonjour in iChat is great
for events like this.
There may be people around you in
the room that you know by reputation.
You've seen their
postings on mailing lists,
but you've never met them in person.
They're not friends who
are in your buddy list.
Well, in the Bonjour buddy list,
it shows you people who are
around you on the same network,
and it can be a great way to bump
into people at conferences like
this and chat with them and say
hello and arrange to get lunch.
Time Machine, of course,
uses Bonjour to find the Time Capsule,
probably the easiest remote network
backup system I've ever seen.
It takes a couple of clicks and
you're backing up over the network.
And this is one of my favorites
for a kind of perverse reason.
The terminal, if you think about it,
is emulating one of those old 110-board
data dynamics teletypes from the 1960s,
the things with the big roll of paper
spilling out over the back as it prints.
And the terminal is emulating that.
In a sense, it's the oldest DNA in OS X.
And when the terminal engineers
added Bonjour browsing to it,
it really took me by surprise that even
something so ancient can benefit from
using Bonjour Service Discovery to find
the SSH and Telnet and other services
that are available on your local network.
So all of that is about ease of use.
In 10.6,
there was a new big feature of Bonjour,
and that was the sleep proxy.
Because we have all these
new products that we offer.
We offer BacksMyMac that lets
you get to your machine at
home and do screen sharing,
but not if it's asleep.
We have USB printer sharing that lets
you share your printer from your iMac,
but not if it's asleep.
We have Apple TV accessing your
content off your iTunes music library,
but not if it's asleep.
So on the one hand,
people want to put their
machines to sleep to save power.
On the other hand,
we're offering all these great
network services that encourage you
to not put your machine to sleep.
And we recognize the tension in this,
so we produced the Bonjour sleep proxy.
And the way that works is when
your machine goes to sleep,
it finds a proxy on the network,
transfers its Bonjour records
to that proxy,
because those records are a really
nice compact description of the
machine's role on the network.
They give its name, its address,
what ports it's listening on,
what services it's offering,
and it can ship that across the network.
The proxy then will then
answer Bonjour queries on
behalf of the sleeping machine,
and when somebody tries to connect to it,
the proxy will wake the
machine up on demand.
One of the things that's
sometimes a little disappointing
working in networking is
that when you do the job right,
no one notices.
When things are broken,
they're quick to complain about it.
But when it's working right,
it's completely invisible
if you do a good job.
And this is one of those.
After this shipped,
several of my friends asked me,
what did you do in the last year?
And I said, I did the sleep proxy.
And they said, what?
And I described it.
And they said, that's really cool.
How can I get it?
And I said, well, you've already got it.
And they didn't even notice.
I notice because I developed
this software originally
on my old Quad G5 at home.
My Mac Mini was the proxy and
the Quad G5 was the client.
And that thing takes so much power
that when it wakes up from sleep,
it makes the lights flicker.
If I left that on 24 hours a day,
it would cost me $1,000 a year in
electricity to power that beast.
So when I'm sitting on the
sofa on my laptop and I print
something and I hit enter,
as I hit enter,
I hear the relays click on
the G5 and the lights flicker.
And every time it does that, I think, oh,
that's cool.
I invented that.
But for most of you,
the iMac doesn't make any sound,
its screen doesn't light up,
it just wakes up, prints the job,
and goes back to sleep.
And you go and pick up your
printout off the printer,
and you give no thought to
the minor miracle that just
happened to make that possible.
And of course,
we make wide use of Bonjour in
iOS devices as well.
We have it for AirPrint.
We have it for AirPlay.
We use Bonjour for home
sharing to access your music.
And the Apple TV remote control
app uses Bonjour to discover
the Apple TVs it's controlling.
So that's great for Apple, but
You guys are here because
you make apps as well.
So what about your app?
Well,
We're giving this presentation
today because we don't want you
to make apps that look like this,
typing in addresses and port numbers
and lots of manual configuration.
So, let's get down to the details.
What do you do to add
Bonjour to your application?
The link local addressing is automatic.
That's handled by the OS.
Unless you're building a hardware device,
you don't need to worry about that.
The multicast DNS is automatic.
That's handled by the OS.
The area where Bonjour interacts
with your apps is through the three
APIs that we provide for the three
basic Bonjour operations—Register,
Browse, and Resolve.
Registering is when you have a device
that's offering a service on the network,
say Apple TV, which is offering AirPlay.
When you power that on,
it advertises its service on the network,
and it sends out a couple of announcement
packets just in case somebody was
waiting for that Apple TV to come online.
A common misperception is that
Bonjour works by continually
broadcasting packets on the network,
and it doesn't at all.
We put a lot of work into
making it very efficient.
So on power on,
the device will send a few
packets to announce its presence,
but after that it shuts up
and it doesn't send any more.
Now let's suppose you come
into my house with your iPad,
and you want to show me some pictures.
So you want to browse to
discover what AirPlay services
are available in my house.
House.
The iPad sends out a
multicast query saying,
"Who supports AirPlay?" And the
Apple TV sees that and says,
"Oh,
I should answer that question." And each
device on the network that can answer
that question sends back its replies.
And the iPad collects those replies,
and you see a list of
AirPlay services on the network.
Notice in the browsing operation,
there were no IP addresses.
It is just getting a list of names.
And that's very intentional
that we've made service
discovery a two-step process,
and Rory will talk more later
about why that's important.
The browsing is very lightweight,
it just gets a list of names.
When the user picks a device
they want to use and taps on it,
the second step happens,
which is the iPad sends out
another multicast query and says,
okay, that's nice,
I want to use your service now,
tell me how to connect to it.
And the result of the resolve
call is the IP address,
the port number,
additional text record information
that some services need.
And this is done at time of use.
And that's very important,
because in a dynamic world of
DHCP and linked local addresses,
IP addresses can change.
Names are the stable identifiers,
but IP addresses are not.
So you save the resolve
until connection time.
For those of you who are
interested in the lower-level
details of what's going on,
I will explain how this is
done with multicast DNS.
And these are standard DNS queries that
you can—you can do these to unicast
DNS servers just using the DIG or the
NSLOOKUP command on the command line.
The first query in this example—let's
suppose we're looking for things
that implement IPP internet printing.
We send out a PTR query saying,
"Who supports this service type,
IPP.TCP?" And we get
back a list of answers.
And the first label of those
answers is the rich text name
that you display to the user.
DNS names traditionally have
been all lowercase digits,
no punctuation, no spaces.
And these are stored in the DNS,
but they're not host names.
They're not typed by users.
So you're free to use
whatever rich text you want,
punctuation, spaces,
even UTF-8 non-Roman characters.
Looking at that name,
it's worth investigating a bit more.
It's a structured name.
It contains three parts.
It contains the user-visible name,
it contains the service type,
which is a unique identifier for the
type of operation that's being performed,
and it contains the domain,
which in this case is local,
meaning use multicast DNS.
But it could be anything else,
like apple.com,
which would mean use wide-area
Bonjour and standard DNS queries.
When you developers produce
applications that offer
services or browse for services,
choosing the service type
is an important decision,
so I want to go over that a little bit.
A service type identifies two things.
It identifies what the service does,
for example printing, but it also has to
identify how it does it.
Because for a client to use a service,
two things have got to match.
The service has got to
do what the client wants,
but it's also got to do it
with a protocol that the
client knows how to speak.
If I discover an IPP printer,
but I only have an LPR client,
that's not helpful at the software level.
It may be helpful at a human level to
say there's a printer there I can't use,
but from the software perspective,
the software wants to find
the services it can talk to.
So I'll give a couple of examples.
iTunes music sharing
is basically HTTP GET.
But that doesn't mean it's a web browser.
So if iTunes was browsing for HTTP,
it would discover the configuration
page for your printer,
which is not very helpful.
And Safari would discover
your iTunes music collection,
which is not very helpful because
they're not web pages it can view.
So the service type for
music sharing is DAAP,
Digital Audio Access Protocol.
So even though it is syntactically
looks like HTTP on the wire,
it's semantically being used
for a different purpose.
So when you pick a service type name,
bear that in mind.
And for development,
you can use whatever string you like,
but before you ship your product,
please register it because that's how
you ensure there are no conflicts.
So imagine some Android developer
who knows nothing about iTunes
picks DAAP for their game.
Well, now they're going to accidentally
discover iTunes services on the network,
which is not helpful.
So it doesn't cost anything.
It's very easy just to send in an email
and register your unique service types.
And then the final step,
what happens when we found those list
of names when we want to connect?
Well, those are two more DNS queries.
There's an SRV query and a text query.
And the SRV query gives
us the port number,
in this case, IPP services on port 631,
and the host name is myprinter.local.
The text record gives us
additional key value pairs.
In this case,
it tells us that the printer supports
the PostScript page description language.
And through the magic of DNS,
the server included an
additional record in the reply.
We didn't ask for the
address of myprinter.local,
but it knows that we're probably
going to need that next.
So rather than make us do
another round trip to fetch it,
it adds that additional record in.
So that's how you can use Bonjour,
and I want to show you a product
that does it so you can see how
this improves the ease of use.
This is a network camera made by Axis.
They're one of the biggest
sellers of network cameras,
and they're not cheap,
so I guess that means people
are willing to pay for quality.
And of course, it supports Bonjour.
If you guys have ever tried
setting up network cameras at home,
you know that it can be—you better budget
a Saturday afternoon for struggling with
this thing to get it on the network.
Well, with Bonjour,
I'm going to run an app
here called ZeroConf Spy,
which will browse for Bonjour services.
And we've discovered the camera,
and it is telling Safari to open it.
[Transcript missing]
And if you've tried setting
up a network camera yourself,
you'll know it normally
takes longer than that.
Some of you will have seen
the Axis camera before.
I have a new thing to show you this year.
We don't have time to do a
demo with this one as well,
but I'm glad to see that there
are more Bonjour-enabled network
cameras coming onto the market.
This is from a company called Stem.
They have a nice little
iPhone and iPad app,
so it becomes sort of an IP baby monitor.
And that should be in the shops soon.
I don't think they've
announced the release date yet,
but very soon.
And with that,
I would like to ask my colleague,
Roary McGuire,
to come up on stage and tell you more
of some of the programming details.
Thank you, Stuart.
So what are you all here for?
You're all here to learn about
all these cool APIs and how you
can make your applications better,
right?
So that's what I'm going to go into.
I'm going to go into the
nitty-gritty details of what
are the application programming
interfaces that you guys can use.
What are the layers of the API?
What are the actual calls that you make?
And how do you actually get this to work?
Now, in years past, we've actually only
covered the Bonjour APIs.
But this year,
we're actually going to cover some of
the socket APIs and things that you also
need to use to actually get you up and
running all the way from stem to start.
So first thing, Bonjour API architecture.
There are five layers to the Bonjour API.
The top two layers are your
foundation and your CF layers,
and these are the things that
actually have the Bonjour calls in it:
to register your services and
advertise them on the network,
to browse for services on the network
that other devices are providing,
and to resolve those services so that
you can actually connect to them.
The DNSSD layer is the low
Darwin Foundation layer.
It's actually a C-layer API if you
want to get down even closer to
the underlying layers of Bonjour to
do things in even more detail.
Now, most of you will probably
not need to go that low.
Most of you will be just fine using
the NSNet services and CFNet services,
and that's what I'm going to go over.
Again, like Stuart said,
a lot of the stuff you don't
have to worry about yourself.
Link local addressing and host
names and things like that,
you won't have to worry about.
That's taken care of by MDNS Responder
and the kernel layer beneath.
So again, like I said,
this year we're actually also going to
go over how to do it from stem to stern,
including all the sockets and things.
So the two layers on top are
the foundation and the CF layers
that are going to enable
you to actually use sockets,
right?
How do you actually get information
from one device to the other after
you've connected to the service?
The Darwin Foundation layer for socket,
bind, and listen is some of the stuff
I'm going to go over so that
you can actually implement a
listening service on your device.
So instead of having just a Mac or
something else that we don't
really go into detail about,
you have this listening service
over here and you connect to it,
this year we're actually going to
go over how to create one of those,
how to bind to a socket,
how to listen on it,
and how to register it with Bonjour so
that your client can connect to it.
And again,
the kernel's down beneath there,
but you won't have to worry about that.
So what do you do on the server side?
First thing you have to do
is get yourself a socket.
Ask the kernel,
"I need to file the script or to
do some networking stuff." You're
going to bind that socket to a
particular address and a port,
and you're actually going to ask
the kernel for an arbitrary port.
Since Bonjour does the discovery of
ports and host names and IP addresses,
it doesn't really matter what port
number you use for your service.
So you can actually ask the kernel, say,
"I don't care what port number I get.
Just give me a listening port."
And then once you get it,
you actually tell the kernel,
"I want to listen on that port."
And then to make it even easier,
once you've done all that kind
of low-layer BSD socket stuff,
I'm actually going to go over how
to wrap it in a CF socket so that
it's a lot easier to integrate
with your run loops and your
NS application main and all that stuff.
Then the object that you're going to use
for that wrapping is a CF socket ref.
Now, what are you going to do to actually
advertise it on the network?
This is the actual Bonjour call.
The Bonjour API is NSNet service.
Once you get the port number from the
kernel that your service is listening on,
you're going to pass
that to NSNet service,
and you're going to say,
"Here's the name of my service,
the type of my service,
and the port number that you're
actually listening on." I'll go over
this in a little bit more detail.
Then you actually tell it to publish,
right?
And that's actually going to advertise it
on the network for your clients to see.
What about the client?
So, over here on the client side,
you're going to want to
search for those services,
the services of the type that you're
using in development and then,
as Stuart said,
have registered once you ship, right?
And you're going to search for those
services that you can actually find.
And this is the browse call.
This is what you're actually
going to use to do the browse.
Now, the browse call has a delegate,
and the delegate method that's going
to get called is did find service.
When it finds your services
out on the network,
it's going to call you
back with this thing.
Now, keep in mind,
it's going to call you back multiple
times for each one of the clients
that it sees on the network—or,
sorry, each one of the servers
that it sees on the network.
If it sees only one service,
you'll only get one of these callbacks.
If it sees multiple of them,
you'll actually get several of them back.
Now, the important part here that
Stuart talked about a little bit is
that you want your user to decide
which one they want to connect to.
Don't go connecting to every
single service that comes back
in did find service because it's
very inefficient on the network.
[Transcript missing]
And now your client and
your server are connected.
Bytes that you write to the output
stream on the client get sent to
the input stream on the server,
and from the output stream on the server
to the input stream on the client.
So what does this look like?
Okay, back over here to the server side.
You're going to want to create a socket.
That's the first line up there.
AFInet means IPv4.
Sockstream means you want TCP.
And then you're going to create
this socket adder object,
and you're going to tell the kernel,
"I want port number zero." Now,
there isn't really a port number zero.
This is the way you tell the kernel,
"I don't care what port
number you give me.
Just give me a port,
and I'm going to use Bonjour to let the
client figure out what the port is."
Then you'll call bind and get sock name,
right?
Get sock name is actually the call
that you make to figure out what
port it was that the kernel gave you.
And you'll get it back
out of the syn.syn_port.
And then at the end you call listen,
which actually tells the kernel,
go ahead and start accepting
TCP connections on this port.
So, you'll also want to do this for IPv6.
Now, as many of you probably know,
yesterday was World IPv6 Day.
It went extraordinarily well.
I think developer.facebook.com
left IPv6 up.
It went so well that there's
not even news about it.
It's not like the power grids
went down and all Y2K stuff,
right?
So, you're going to want to do the
same kind of thing on IPv6,
but there's a gotcha here.
You want to make sure that you use
the port number that you got for v4.
Bonjour does not make the distinction,
really, between v4 and v6 because there's
really only one host name for the
device that's providing the service.
So,
when your client resolves that service,
they may get a v6 address back,
they may get a v4 address back.
So, you need to make sure you're
listening on the same port number,
otherwise your client
may not actually connect.
So, the part here that's important
is that when you set the port
number on the sock adder 6,
you need to make sure that you set it to
the port number that you got back from
the kernel when you called get sock name.
So, now here is the glue to
wrap this up in a CF socket.
It's this thing called
CF socket create with native.
The kernel, the BSD layer APIs give
you back a file descriptor,
essentially just an integer.
You can take that,
wrap it in a CF socket object,
create a run loop source,
and put that source on your run loop.
Now, notice that we have specified
this listening socket callback,
and I will go over that in
a couple of slides here.
That's actually the thing that
will get called back when you
get an incoming connection,
and I'll go over how to actually
wrap the connection in some
NS input stream and output stream.
So, this is hooking up the V4 socket.
You have to do this
twice—once for your V4 socket,
once for your V6 socket,
or you won't actually get your call
back when somebody connects over V6.
So make sure you also call
this with your v6 socket.
Now, for the slides,
this is like copy-pasted code.
It's probably a better idea to
functionalize this and just pass in
the file descriptor for v4 and then
pass in the file descriptor for v6.
So, now to get to the actual Bonjour API.
What do you do here to
actually register this service?
You have this thing from the kernel,
and you've wrapped it in a CF socket,
and it's listening and it's
waiting for your client to connect.
How do you actually
advertise it over Bonjour?
We can go all the way back
up to the Cocoa Layer APIs,
the Foundation Layer APIs,
and you're going to create an
NSNet service object and init it,
and then schedule it in the run loop,
set delegates so you can get callbacks,
and then publish it.
So, the things to note here are, first,
the domain.
In Bonjour, right,
we support local Bonjour on
the link local network,
and we also support wide area
Bonjour over things like Back to My Mac.
If you pass the empty string domain,
MDNS Responder, the system service that
takes care of Bonjour,
will just pick all of
the domains that it can,
right?
It will actually register
them in all the domains,
whether they're link
local or Back to My Mac,
if you have it, say, on your Mac.
Then the type.
This is the service type that
Stuart was speaking about.
This is the type that you've registered,
and this is how your clients will
find your service on the network.
The name is also interesting.
If you pass in the empty string for name,
it will actually,
just like when the kernel picked
an arbitrary port number for you,
this one will automatically pick
the pretty name of the device
that you're running this on.
For iOS devices,
this is the name that you
assign the device in iTunes.
For Macs, this is the name that's
in the sharing pref pane.
And of course you pass in the port.
Now notice that we've
wrapped this in end-to-HS,
which is some low-level networking
stuff because this API takes...
Host order, host byte order.
But the stuff that you get back in the
SOC adder is actually network byte order.
So if you don't do this and you can't
figure out why you can't connect,
it's probably because
you weren't doing this.
And you schedule in the run loop,
set your delegate, and call publish.
What about the callback?
Well,
in order to figure out what the name
was that MDNS Responder picked for you,
you just call—sorry,
you will get this callback
for "did publish," and then
you can get the name back out,
and you can log it,
you can display it in your UI,
however you want to deal with that.
So this is the accept callback.
This is the glue that when the
CF socket stuff calls you back,
this is how to wrap it in NS input
stream and NS output stream.
These slides are going to be
available after the conference,
and also there's a new sample
coming out called Remote Currency.
Didn't quite have time to get it done,
but it's coming out soon,
and it's going to have a
lot of this stuff in it,
and it'll be a lot better than just
these slides can go into detail with.
So, what about the client side?
Right, on the client side, we have to...
Browse for services.
Right, so how do you do that?
Well, again,
you use the NSNet Service Browser—sorry,
not again.
You use the NSNet Server Browser object,
you init it, you set your delegate on it,
and then you search for
services of the type.
Right, again,
this is your registered type.
And here, when you pass in the domain,
again, it's going to try to search in
all the domains that it can.
And here's the browse callback.
It's going to do this
"Did find service." Now,
there's an interesting parameter
in this callback that's going
to be important for UI reasons.
It's called "more coming."
More coming is actually a hint
that the underlying system daemon,
MDNS responder,
actually has more events for you.
So you don't necessarily want to
update your UI when this flag is set,
because you'll be spending a
lot of time updating your UI.
It's going to kind of
flash in front of the user.
Who wants bad user experience?
Nobody.
Use this as a hint to
just change your model,
and then when you get one of
these back without the flag set,
update your UI.
So, another callback that might
happen is did remove service.
If the application providing the
service stops registering that service,
MDS Responder will give you back
one of these did remove services
because Bonjour is dynamic.
It knows when things come and
go as long as the device has
had enough time to say goodbye,
I'm not here anymore, right?
Now, if you crash or if your device
falls off the Wi-Fi network,
it won't have time to do that.
But you will get did remove service
callbacks when it has time to do that,
and later on, things actually time out,
right?
In Bonjour,
things will actually time out if
it hasn't been seen in a while,
and then you'll get some more.
You'll get a remove call.
So, what about resolving?
Again, if you're using the NS Layer APIs,
you don't have to
explicitly call resolve.
All you have to do is get the
input stream and the output stream,
schedule them in your run loop,
and call open.
Once you've done that, asynchronously,
it will resolve the service,
it'll connect to it over TCP,
and it'll give you a
callback when it's done.
Again, the important thing here to
make sure it's asynchronous is
to schedule it in a run loop.
If you call open before you
schedule it in a run loop,
you're going to block,
you're going to get
bitten by the watchdog,
things are going to go bad.
Okay,
so those are the APIs from stem to stern.
What about multitasking?
So in iOS 4, we introduced multitasking.
What does that mean for Bonjour services
and networking in general?
Well,
let's go through a little timeline here.
Your application is going to get
"application did enter background."
It's going to tell you that the
operating system is telling you,
"Hey,
the user switched off and you're now
in the background." At this point,
you should stop listening on your sockets
and you should actually stop advertising,
stop the register for Bonjour,
because while your application
is in the background,
you won't necessarily be able to
accept new incoming connections.
Now, there are a lot of reasons that
we did that the operating system
actually behaves this way,
but the biggest reason is power, right?
If you're constantly listening and
constantly doing network stuff,
even when the user can't
interact in this application,
then it's just going to
be bad for battery life,
right?
So battery performance reasons,
stuff like that.
So notice that sometime after
"application did enter background,"
not necessarily immediately after you
return from that delegate callback,
your code will stop running.
You can't really tell when that is
because your code is not running.
Now, you can request a task completion,
and there's some good technical
publications up that talk about different
ways to do things in the background.
You can request a task
completion if you're,
say, downloading something small.
You can say, "Okay, well,
I need to run just a little
bit longer," and it'll extend
you out just a little bit.
But again, it's not going to be forever,
right?
You're going to, at some point,
stop running.
Now here's the interesting part here.
After your code stops running—and again,
you can't tell this is happening
because your code is not running—your
Bonjour operations may get canceled.
The inter-process communication from
your application down to the system
service is going to get severed
for battery-in performance reasons.
The other thing that might happen is that
your connections are going to get closed.
That's different than socket close,
right?
When your code is not running,
you did not call close on the socket.
But the kernel is going to
send TCP fins to your peers.
Your listening ports will stop listening,
and the kernel will reclaim the resources
that go along with your sockets.
So when your code actually
starts running again,
you need to make sure to deal
with the aftermath of that stuff.
Now, if your user has actually just
gone to another application
and come back really quick,
this may not have happened.
So you don't necessarily want to stop
your Bonjour browsers and stop your
outbound connections when you get
application did in the background.
You are going to want to do
it for listening sockets,
and I have a note on Tech Note that's
really greatly written,
and we'll give you a lot of
details on that information.
[Transcript missing]
So, what will actually
happen in the aftermath?
Right?
This is the browser
callback that will happen.
Did not search.
Now, this callback also happens
if there was an error when
you first started to browse,
but when you come out of the background,
this is what you're going to get.
This is when you're going to have to say,
"Okay, let me make sure.
Does the user really
want to browse again?
If so, let's restart the browse
and update the UI."
Keep in mind,
you will not get remove events
for all of the stuff that you had
previously gotten add events for.
This thing tells you,
flush your cache of the
events that you had gotten.
They're gone.
If you start again,
you will get add events for all
the stuff that's on the network,
just as if you started again,
because you did start again.
So two years ago we
introduced Bonjour peer to
peer over Bluetooth in iOS.
And we have now in iOS 5 made it opt in.
There were some performance
things and some networking
things that now made this opt in.
This is only if you link
against the iOS 5 SDK.
If you link against
something earlier than that,
you're still going to
get the old behavior.
So it's not like if your
users update to iOS 5,
they're going to get some new behavior.
If they update to iOS 5 and
still have your old app that was
built against something before 5,
then they'll still get the old behavior.
And the flag is exposed
in the DNS layer API,
DNS SD layer API.
Okay, so now let's take a step back
and go to tips and reminders.
Again, I cannot stress this one enough.
Use asynchronous calls.
For example,
the DNS timeout is 30 seconds.
DNS has been around a long time,
and the 30-second timeout has
worked really well in practice.
iPhones have not been around as long,
but we've determined that the watchdog
timer for pulling events off of the
event manager in your main thread,
about 20 seconds.
So, if you make a blocking DNS call on
the main thread and your DNS server
just doesn't respond to you,
you're going to get ejected.
Right?
The watchdog is going to bite you.
And your app dies,
and your user has no idea why.
It looks like you crashed,
but you didn't.
So, use the NS layer APIs, NS operation,
and stuff like Grand Central Dispatch.
There were some great sessions on
Grand Central Dispatch this year.
Unfortunately,
they're all before this one.
As a matter of fact,
right before this one in this room.
So,
go back in time and go watch that one.
So, browse call.
The right way to do the browse call.
Don't have a refresh button.
Bonjour is dynamic.
You will get add events,
you will get remove events.
There's no reason for you to refresh.
MD&S Responder will
handle that stuff for you.
Don't do open-ended browsing.
If you're not displaying
a browse UI to your users,
they probably don't care about browsing,
and you're going to be using
network resources that you don't
have to be using because your user
doesn't care about it right now.
Also, stop browsing when you're not
displaying that UI anymore.
Don't start browsing when you first
display the UI and then keep the
browse going forever and ever and ever,
particularly because when you go into
the background and come back out,
that browse may be dead.
So for your Mac developers,
a little suggestion here: use Windows,
not pull-down menus.
Right?
If you're mousing over a menu and all of
a sudden it changes out from underneath
you kind of right before you click,
bad user experience.
Users are generally more
comfortable with menus being static.
Now, the next thing is also very
important for networking in general.
Resolve and connect only when your
user has selected the service.
Don't connect to every single
thing that you find in the browse.
It uses the network unduly.
So here's a little graphic
that we put together.
So as Stuart said before,
when you browse, you get a little bit of
information about every service.
You get the name of all the services
of the type that you're looking for.
When you resolve,
you get a lot of information
about one service.
Right?
Do not go fill out the entire table.
It's bad for the network and
bad for your user experience.
So, saving services you find.
Bad ideas for saving the information
that you get back from resolving.
Don't just save the IP address.
IP addresses change,
particularly link local
addresses and addresses in IPv6.
In Lion, we have temporary
private addresses for v6,
and those things may change—or those
things will change—about every 24 hours.
If your device goes off the
network and comes back on,
it might have changed its address
just because the DHCP server
decided to give it a new one.
Don't save just the IP address.
Also, don't save the port number.
If you follow the direction here and
you ask the kernel for port number zero,
the next time you ask the
kernel for port number zero,
you're probably going to
get a different port number.
So, on the client side,
don't save the port number because you
probably won't be able to connect to it.
As a matter of fact,
don't even save the host name.
The host name can actually change.
If the user goes and, say, you know,
changes the name of their machine,
that's not necessarily
what you want to save.
The right way to do it is late binding,
right?
The service is defined
by the tuple of name,
type, type in domain,
that's what you want to save.
Again, service naming and registering.
There's a unique identifier
for each service type,
15 characters maximum, letters, digits,
and hyphens are allowed.
Go to this URL and register your type.
It's real easy.
It's free.
More information.
We've got some great evangelists that
help us out with the Bonjour stuff,
and we have some great
documentation and sample code.
Again, there's a new sample coming out in
a couple of weeks called "Remote
Currency" that you should all look at.
There's the book written
by my colleague Stuart,
and of course the Apple Developer Forum.
So for the third of you that
have been to Bonjour before,
the Bonjour stuff before,
and know a little bit more about Bonjour,
you can help out those that are
new and that don't know as much.
Some related sessions
that are all in the past.
If you don't take anything else,
these are the things
that you should remember.
Bonjour makes networking
easy and reliable.
It makes things really easy to do,
and Apple uses it all over the system,
and we make these APIs public,
and you guys can use it as well.
It's also public for things
like Linux and Windows,
Android phones, that kind of stuff,
so it's cross-platform.
Use asynchronous calls
across all of networking,
not just Bonjour.
Do not get bitten by the watchdog.
Let the user decide when
they've waited long enough.
Don't just say, "Well,
I haven't been able to
connect for 10 seconds.
I'm going to stop." Ten seconds
might be great for one network
and horrible for another network.
Let the user decide when
they're done waiting for stuff.
Use late binding.
If you're going to resolve a service once
and then connect to it multiple times,
say, like, when you choose a printer,
you want to keep the
name type in the domain,
not the port number, not the IP address,
not even the host name.
the service name, the service type,
and the domain in which
it was discovered.
Handle errors when you get
back out of the background,
because you may encounter them
depending on when the kernel
needed to reclaim resources.
And register your service types.
Thank you very much.